---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9 - CodeSchool jQuery"
date:   2017-12-08 22:00:00 -0400
tags: devember codeschool jquery
---

Today, being a Saturday, was very lax. Wasn't feeling very motivated to actually work through much code of my Unity game. Instead, I ran through a few lessons on [CodeSchool](codeschool.com). It's one (of many) online sources for learning how to code. It's got videos, pdfs, online consoles to actually run code, etc. It had a free weekend back in November, and I liked the quality enough to drop 30$ for a month of access to their courses. There are free options of course, and other websites, but the quality and quantity were actually deserving of some money.

I've been using it to both refresh some of my old webdev skills, and get caught up on newer trends. Like, I knew JavaScript before going to university. But in the time it took to complete my degree, everything I knew about JavaScript became severely outdated. Staying up to date on webdev is **really** hard. But ya, since starting #devember, I have been solely working on my Unity game, and since I really wasn't feeling that today, decided to catch up on some JS lessons. Today's was jQuery. I didn't even know they had a jQuery2 out now...

Really though, I'm just working my way through the various JS courses as refreshers, until I get to Angular and React. Those 2 are really huge in the industry nowadays and I see them being called for all the time in job ads. 

That's my goal for #devember, get my Unity game done, and get a real handle on the newer web technologies.